# Project-3---Purple-Team

Project 3 was a collaborative project for the UPENN Data Science and Visualization Bootcamp.  Its members were Kyle Taveira Tener, Julian Hahm, Sarah Schilling, and Luis Herran.  The goal of this project was to use a dataset and perform a combined analysis of the provided information.  From that information we were then tasked at creating interactive visualizations in order to portray our discoveries.  

We decided to use a dataset that used customer reviews to help determine different drug perfomance values across different illnesses. Our group focused on the creation of a SQL database to house the dataset.  From there we used the python skills and libraries gathered, to create the analysis and visualizations.  The dataset we used was pulled from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/thedevastator/drug-performance-evaluation?select=Drug_clean.csv.  In the data we are given common ailments and their drug treatments.  Each drug has its set of values such as reviews, price, etc.  Once we created the Postgres SQL database we used past lessons to call the database into a jupyter notebook.  From there using pandas we created a dataaframe to house the data for the Bokeh library.  Bokeh is an interactive python visualization library that has the power to write JavaScript powered visualizations without the need to code JavaScript at all. 

The code we crafted creates a series of graphs that show the drug forms vs. the price, the satisfaction vs. the effectiveness, and the satisfaction vs. the cost.  To create the code we called on https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh/tree/main/examples/server/app/movies for inspiration and a starting point in creating the visualizations that we wanted.  Once the code is run you then have the ability to cycle throught the provided ailments to see the different values. You also can slide the price and ease of use values into ranges that could find the drug price you want for your condition.  Built into the graphs is the ability to hover over the bar or point and see the drug form, price, etc.  We also crafted a selection tool that allows you to select a range of values in the scatter plot that will highlight the bars in the bar graph to make it easier to find drugs within the range you are looking for.  

For our project, we wanted to ensure that there was no patient information available to us when selecting the data source to ensure we were considering data privacy and not pulling any data that would be in violation of the HIPAA act.  Each entry within our dataset did not have PII available to identify a specific individual or case that would identify an individual as well as any sensitive patient information.  Our data was a compilation of datasets that was originally scarping WebMd data to show the relationship among variables for 37 common health conditions.

Instructions on how to use and interact with the project.
